---
title: Inheritance
permalink: /css/inheritance/
sidenav: css
---
# Working with inheritance in Sass

Two commonly used Sass features are [mixins and inheritance](https://sass-lang.com/guide)
(the @extend directive). These are very powerful if used correctly; however,
@extend in particular can bloat your stylesheets if used too liberally.

## Mixins

Mixins are helpful for decreasing the amount of repetitive code you need to write.
For instance, if you want to create a clearfix that can be added to other classes
easily, you could create a clearfix mixin:

  ```scss
  @mixin clearfix {
    &:after {
      content: '';
      display: table;
      clear: both;
    }
  }
  ```

You can then use the mixin in other classes, without having to rewrite the rules:
  ```scss
  .media-block {
    @include clearfix;
    ...
  }
  ```

Mixins can also take parameters.

For further guidance, see the [Sass documentation](https://sass-lang.com/guide).

### When to use mixins

- Use mixins for groups of properties that appear together intentionally and are used multiple times.
- Use mixins for components to change size.
- Use mixins when a repeatable pattern requires parameters. For example:

  ```scss
  @mixin size($width, $height: $width) {
    width: $width;
    height: $height;
  }
  ```

### When not to use mixins
Do not use mixins for browser prefixes. Use [Autoprefixer](https://github.com/postcss/autoprefixer).


## Extend
Any Sass selector can be extended. However, because `@extend` copies all of
the rules from one selector to another, it can cause a great deal of unintentional
CSS bloat when the CSS is compiled. Sass has the concept of [placeholder classes],
which help reduce unforeseen side effects. The Sass documentation has
[helpful information about using `@extend`](http://sass-lang.com/guide).

Be very careful and deliberate when using `@extend`. It's a powerful tool that can have
disastrous side-effects. Before using please consider:

- Where is my current selector going to be appended?
- Am I likely to be causing undesired side-effects?
- How large is the CSS generated by this single extend?

If you're unsure of using `@extend`, follow these rules to avoid running into
trouble:

- Use `@extend` from within a module, not across different modules.
- Use `@extend` on placeholder classes exclusively, not on actual selectors.
- Make sure the placeholder class you extend is present as little as possible in the
  stylesheet.

You can use [mixins] in place of selectors. While mixins will copy more code,
the difference will often be negligible once the output file has been gzipped.

[mixins]: http://sass-lang.com/guide#mixins
[placeholder classes]: http://thesassway.com/intermediate/understanding-placeholder-selectors
